[AUDIO LOGO]
>>NICK POPE: For
years, NASA said, we're
not interested in UFOs.
We don't investigate.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And then, now--
>>POPE: And then they do.
>>NOORY: --bang.
What do you think of the
James Webb telescope?
>>POPE: Oh, my goodness--
one of the wonders
of the modern world.
It's like the
scientific community
is catching up where
the UFO community has
been for 80 years.
>>NOORY: The answers
are going to come,
and they're going to
come in a big way.
>>POPE: Some people will
react with fear, others
with a sense of wonder.
>>NOORY: And one day,
experts like you, Nick,
will be able to
say, I told you so.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
He's with us, Nick Pope--
author, journalist who ran
the British government's UFO
program for more
than two decades.
He's one of the world's
leading authorities
on UFOs and the unexplained.
Nick, welcome to the program.
>>POPE: Thank you.
It's great to be back.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>POPE: I have been busy.
What a time it's been
for this subject.
>>NOORY: Oh, my gosh.
National committees,
congressional committees,
and NASA announcing
that they've formed
another group of committee.
Tell me about that.
What do they plan to do?
>>POPE: Well, set up a review of
unidentified aerial phenomenon
and really join, I
suppose, the effort that
is already underway, in
the intelligence community
and the Department of Defense,
and bring scientific focus
to this.
I mean, of course,
for years NASA said,
we're not interested in UFOs.
We don't investigate.
>>NOORY: And, then now--
>>POPE: And then they do.
>>NOORY: --bang.
>>POPE: Yeah, right back in it.
>>NOORY: Is there something
going on we really
don't know about yet?
>>POPE: Well, I can't
help but wonder.
Sometimes in
government, you don't
want to be reacting to things.
You don't want to be passive.
>>NOORY: You want
to be the leader.
>>POPE: You want
So if you know
something's coming,
or if you strongly
suspect that something's
coming-- either literally
or some great revelation--
you want to get ahead
of the narrative.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: So I think one
hypothesis is that all of this
is what we're seeing,
and that NASA are perhaps
going to be the ones who say,
we've made the announcement.
We've made a discovery.
There is something.
We've found something-- perhaps
with the James Webb Space
Telescope, perhaps
with Hubble, perhaps
with some other optical
or radio telescope.
But ideally, of
course, that's the way.
That's the way that they could
then get around the cover
up and the conspiracy.
They could essentially
say, look, science
has made this discovery.
>>NOORY: We just
found out, right?
>>POPE: We just found out.
Now, of course, a lot of people
will be saying, wait a minute.
You've known about
this for 80 years.
>>NOORY: Because we did too.
>>POPE: Yeah, absolutely.
People will say,
come on, what do you
mean you've just found it?
You've known about
this for decades.
You've been covering it up.
But maybe they're hoping that
the societal impact of this
will be such that they
can just get beyond that
and they can maybe say, oh,
that's just crazy conspiracy
stuff.
Here's the science.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Are you privy to UFO files
from Britain anymore?
>>POPE: I don't-- or at least
I don't think I have a current
security clearance.
But I do stay in touch
with some colleagues.
>>NOORY: You have
some friends there.
>>POPE: I have friends.
You can't be in an organization
like that 21 years and not
still network.
>>NOORY: And what did
they tell you, Nick?
What's going on?
>>POPE: It's
difficult. There are
factions on this, as
there always have been.
There is a hardcore skeptical
faction that, at the moment,
in the UK, has the
dominant position.
And they don't
want to touch this.
Either that, or they've been
told by the US government,
don't touch this.
We are dealing.
We are leading.
>>NOORY: Does the US government
have that kind of cloud
with the Brits?
>>POPE: Oh, yes.
I mean, the US is the
senior force in NATO.
It's arguably the world's
greatest superpower.
I mean, when they say jump, the
UK generally says, how high?
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's true.
>>POPE: I mean, we are
very much, in the UK,
the junior partner in the
so-called special relationship.
>>NOORY: What did you think
of the Congressional hearings
on UFOs?
I was a little
disappointed, frankly.
>>POPE: It's a mixed bag.
I think the most important
thing was that it was done.
I mean it-- often--
>>NOORY: They did something.
>>POPE: It did something, yeah.
For years, Congress
wasn't touching this.
And a lot of people
said, come on,
this is a defense and
national security issue.
You should be looking.
And of course, it was one of
the subcommittees of the House
Intelligence Committee
that had the hearing.
But other committees
and subcommittees,
in both the Senate
and the House,
are looking too-- so
the Armed Services
Committee, the Intelligence
Committee, Appropriations too.
So there's a lot of
people suddenly in this.
As I say, I think
it's a mixed bag.
It wasn't disclosure, but
it was a step forward.
And it put into the
Congressional record
all sorts of--
>>NOORY: That was critical.
>>POPE: Yeah.
I mean, one of the great
things, for example,
was that they asked about the
1967 Maelstrom Air Force Base
case where it's alleged that--
>>NOORY: They shut down
the nuke site, right?
>>POPE: That's correct, yes.
That's now on the record because
in the defense bill, of course,
there were multiple
UFO provisions.
And one of the things in
there was that they had said,
we want to know about any
incident where UFOs are seen
around nuclear facilities--
whether they're missile sites,
nuclear power stations--
>>NOORY: That woke them up.
>>POPE: It woke them up, yeah.
They looked decidedly
uncomfortable.
They, at first, I
think, almost denied it.
Then, they acknowledged that
they might have heard of it,
but they didn't think they
had any information on it.
Well, Captain Robert
Salas, who was there--
>>NOORY: He was there.
He was a witness.
>>POPE: Yeah.
And he had written to Congress,
putting his own account
before the committee.
So there was no excuse for it.
But it was good that it
was read onto the record.
The Wilson Memo and--
>>NOORY: Admiral Wilson, yeah.
>>POPE: That was read into
the Congressional record too.
>>NOORY: Gaia News jumped
all over this hearing.
>> A historic public hearing
this week on Capitol Hill,
as the House Intelligence
Counter-terrorism,
Counter-intelligence,
and Counter-proliferation
Subcommittee held the first
open UFO hearing since 1966.
This hearing comes after some
lawmakers were reportedly not
impressed by the
classified briefings
they had received as part of the
National Defense Authorization
Act.
In his opening
statement, Scott Bray,
the Deputy Director of Naval
Intelligence, had this to say.
>>SCOTT BRAY: We have
seen an increasing number
of unauthorized and/or
unidentified aircraft
or objects in
military-controlled training
areas--
in training ranges and
other designated airspace.
Reports of sightings are
frequent and continuing.
>> He went on to say one of the
reasons they have more reports
is because of their work
to de-stigmatize the idea
of reporting UFOs and putting
into place a system to report
them.
Despite there being
no major revelations,
there were several notable
moments in the hearing.
Chairman Schiff brought
up reports of aircraft
showing abnormal
flight characteristics.
>>ADAM SCHIFF: Are we aware of
any foreign adversary capable
of moving objects without
any discernible means
of propulsion?
>>BRAY: I think I would--
without discernible
means of propulsion.
I would say that we're not
aware of any adversary that
can move an object
without discernible means
of propulsion.
>> Which begs the question
if it's not an adversary,
then what is it?
>> If they have--
and I'm going to quote
Lue Elizondo on this--
then they've made a
generational leap in technology.
Yeah, we better be
paying attention.
OK?
But these things
have been flying--
see, this is the stupid
thing about the fact
that they put the stigma
on it's back 50 years ago
and said, oh, there's
nothing to see here.
OK?
Things have been flying circles
around our aircraft since World
War II.
>> And there was this exchange
when Congressman Gallagher
asked about UFO interference
around US nuclear missile
sites.
>>MIKE GALLAGHER: It's
also been reported
that there have
been UAP observed,
and interacting with, and
flying over sensitive military
facilities, particularly--
not just ranges,
but some facilities housing
our strategic nuclear forces.
One such incident allegedly
occurred at Malmstrom Air Force
base, in which 10
of our nuclear ICBMs
were rendered inoperable
at the same time.
A glowing red orb was
observed overhead.
I'm not commenting on
the accuracy of this.
I'm simply asking you
whether you're aware of it
and whether you have any comment
on the accuracy of that report.
>> Let me pass that to Mr. Bray.
You've been looking at UAPs
over the last three years.
>>BRAY: That data is not within
the holdings of the UAP Task
Force.
>>NOORY: Pretty dramatic
stuff, though, Nick.
>>POPE: Really dramatic.
And I think my favorite
bit of the hearing
was the question where
this whole issue-- which
Lue Elizondo has mentioned--
of trans medium travel
was mentioned.
And they asked, well, some
of these objects, apparently
they fly seamlessly between the
atmosphere and then underwater.
And the response was, we'll
take that in the classified
briefing.
So even mention of that led to
that defensive embarrassment.
And as you know, of course,
after the public hearing,
they went into closed session.
And that's one of the
things that happened there.
>>NOORY: What do you
think is going on, Nick?
I mean, this is
pretty dramatic stuff.
>>POPE: It is dramatic.
And isn't it
interesting with this,
again, the Navy seemed to
be in a dominant position.
And where's the Air Force?
I mean, this was one of the
great UFO community tropes,
I suppose, in the
'80s and the '90s.
People said, oh,
it's kind of odd.
But somebody came
and debriefed me,
and they were from the Navy.
And people thought, this
doesn't really make sense.
It would be the Air Force.
They land on Blue Book?
Why would the Navy do it?
And now, in recent
years, what have we seen?
US Navy jets, US Navy ships,
US Navy briefers in Congress--
it's the Navy.
>>NOORY: It just
seems like everything
you've been working
for, everything
we've been reporting
on over the years,
it's all coming down to a
few more meetings, a few more
decisions.
And maybe they're
going to tell us.
>>POPE: Well, I hope so.
I mean, this is an
ongoing process.
There will be more
classified briefings.
There will be more, I'm sure.
>>NOORY: There's got to be.
>>POPE: Well, there's got to be.
And hopefully, there will
be public hearings, too,
where people like Chris
Mellon, Lue Elizondo,
maybe myself from the UK, can
come and put onto the record
some of the things that we have
researched and investigated.
>>NOORY: Would you have
testified, if they had asked?
>>POPE: Yes.
I think I would
still have to check
with the UK Ministry of Defense
that that was acceptable.
But again, it goes
back to the point
that the US is the
dominant partner in NATO.
And if they said, we
want this guy and maybe
some other people from
the UK to testify, then
I don't think the MOD would,
or maybe could, object.
And of course, I
live in the US now.
I'm a green card holder.
They could probably
summon me and call me.
>>NOORY: And you'd go.
>>POPE: I would go.
>>NOORY: You'd go.
>>POPE: I would
go because I think
it is incumbent on
those of us who've
done this from the inside
to, within the confines
of our security oaths,
to talk about this.
And if we get into
classified areas, of course,
it may have to be
in a closed session.
But the important point is
to get the information out.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Harvard's Avi Loeb has a project
called the Galileo Project.
What is that?
>>POPE: Well, I'm actually
an affiliate member.
>>NOORY: Oh, are you?
>>POPE: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK, good.
>>POPE: I'm not a scientist.
But Professor Loeb has
asked a number of people,
and again, it's the
same names crop up--
Chris Mellon, Lue Elizondo,
myself, some others.
>>NOORY: The
heavy-hitters of Ufology.
>>POPE: Well, to
hopefully contribute
in an advisory capacity so that
Avi Loeb and his Science Board
can take decisions.
But what he is doing
is, effectively,
what NASA is doing, taking a
scientific look at, actually,
three different
aspects of all this.
>>NOORY: And what are they?
>>POPE: Interstellar objects.
So Oumuamua was
this funny-shaped--
>>NOORY: --strange object, yeah.
>>POPE: Exactly.
Avi Loeb and some others
thought it was artificial.
>>NOORY: Right.
He still does.
>>POPE: He does,
yeah, absolutely--
a derelict or
dormant spacecraft,
a lightsail, something like
that, but extraterrestrial.
And so the Galileo Project will
look for other interstellar
objects and then
hopefully collaborate
on a mission to intercept them.
Simultaneously, they will
look at some UAP data
and collect some data themselves
with their own telescopes.
And also, look-- and this is a
really fascinating idea-- look
for evidence of extraterrestrial
satellites parked perhaps
in a polar orbit
around the Earth.
So it's really destigmatizing
the whole UFO research
and investigation
effort and saying,
let's be scientific about it.
>>NOORY: You've heard
of the Black Knight
Satellite, haven't you?
>>POPE: I have, yes.
>>NOORY: They say it's a
artificial satellite put there
by some alien civilization
circling the planet.
>>POPE: And it makes sense.
Yeah, it makes sense.
If we are being visited
by extraterrestrials,
I mean, that's exactly
what they'd do, surely.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>POPE: Rather than missions--
>>NOORY: We would do that.
>>POPE: Exactly.
And pretty much, we've
done it-- or at least
with some of the Mars
orbiter, for example.
You park a spacecraft up there--
I mean, sure, you land as
well-- but you have an orbiter,
and then you take multiple
photos and videos.
And that's exactly what
a civilization would do.
Why travel back and forward,
and back and forward,
when you can just
stay and gather data?
>>NOORY: What do you think of
the James Webb telescope, Nick?
>>POPE: Oh, my goodness.
I mean, it's one of the
wonders of the modern world.
I mean, in terms
of its sensitivity,
the analogy that
I've heard used is
that it would be able
to detect a bumblebee
on the surface of the moon.
>>NOORY: Or the first
light from the universe.
>>POPE: Yeah.
So let's face it.
If there are, as many
believe, these so-called alien
megastructures--
like Dyson spheres,
for example--
orbiting any of the stars in
our little part of the galaxy,
then James Webb Space
Telescope should find them.
And that goes back--
>>NOORY: Dramatic.
>>POPE: Well, that goes back to
the point about why is all this
happening now--
the point where you can't
keep the lid on a secret,
because maybe, James Webb
is just going to show us
there's aliens.
That's the point where
you want to get out ahead
of the narrative.
And you'd get people ready.
You'd drip feed them,
acclimatize them, prepare them,
and then, bang.
>>NOORY: Back to Gaia News,
where Astronomer Mark Dantonio
talked about the launch
of the James Webb.
>> The much-anticipated
James Webb Space Telescope is
scheduled to finally launch
this month after a history
of postponements and delays.
Why are astronomers so
excited about this telescope?
>>MARK DANTONIO: If you look
at James Webb Space Telescope's
capabilities, I think you'll
find that the James Webb is
probably the most significant
mission in our history
to this point on Earth.
And the reason is
because what it stands
to be able to show to us.
It might be able to
answer the question--
the real true question--
is there life out there?
Because it's going
to be able to see
the atmospheres of exoplanets
around distant stars.
And we'll see things
that might indicate
that there is life there.
And that is a very
important revelation
we can't do right
now because we don't
have a telescope that's really
got the resolution to do that.
Well, James Webb is there.
So we have that
strength on our side.
So that's a very
important thing.
It could answer that
ultimate question.
>> The National Academies
of Sciences weighed
in on their hopes
for the future.
What does astronomer Mark
Dantonio look forward to?
>>DANTONIO: I hope that
we identify planets
out there that are suitable
way stations for travelers
from Earth that eventually
might want to go there.
Sure, we can't fly the
gulf between the stars now,
but we know a ways to.
And we know ways to do
it fast and quickly.
And that's something
that I'd love to see.
In 10 years, I'd love to see
an established program to do--
I won't say
faster-than-light travel,
but warped-space travel.
I'd love to see progress there.
I'd love to see the James Webb
give us candidates for planets
that we think might actually
have signs of industrial
pollutants, signs of oxygen in
the atmosphere inferred from
other chemicals in
the atmosphere--
like carbon dioxide
and methane--
and other possibilities.
And those other possibilities,
that's the mystery.
What are those?
Well, those are
signatures of life.
>>NOORY: He's spot on.
>>POPE: Absolutely.
And I don't think
he mentioned, but I
mean, looking for greenhouse
gases, for example.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: The chemical signature
of other civilizations.
>>NOORY: The signature
of life, that's right.
>>POPE: Yeah.
Because you talk
about a biosignature,
and you also talk about
a techno signature.
And it's great that--
it's like the
scientific community
is catching up where
the UFO community has
been for 80 years.
>>NOORY: If you were back at
the British Ministry of Defense
looking at the UFO files,
and you had carte blanche
to do whatever
you wanted, to say
whatever you wanted, what would
you be doing right now, Nick?
>>POPE: I would be using
military satellites
as the eyes and ears.
>>NOORY: As your tool.
>>POPE: Yeah.
I mean, obviously,
there are a lot
of resources and capabilities
that we could access.
But former director of National
Intelligence John Ratcliffe
acknowledged that military
satellites track these things.
And so I would leverage the
capabilities that we already
have and I would say that
military satellites represent
our best chance of getting
high-resolution images.
But then, the
all-important thing
is to also leverage the
astronomical community,
and yes, James Webb too.
Get telescope time
because you don't just
want to find these UFOs.
You want to see where
they're coming from
and find out where
their homeworld is.
>>NOORY: Right, absolutely.
>>POPE: And let's
just suppose it's
a planet orbiting
Proxima Centauri, just
over four light years away?
Then, as Mark was
saying, a star mission,
that would be the
human races number-one
scientific priority-- a
star mission to go there.
>>NOORY: What are some of
your favorite UFO cases?
>>POPE: Well, I
think the classics,
of course, are Roswell,
Rendlesham Forest.
But also, some of the ones
in the US that excite me
are the Phoenix Lights.
>>NOORY: You
mentioned Rendlesham.
Richard Dolan talks
about Rendlesham Forest
in the United Kingdom.
Let's take a look at that.
>>SPEAKER: Why is it considered
the most well documented event?
I mean, what's the story?
>>RICHARD DOLAN: It's
very well documented
for a key reason,
which is that there
was an official memo written
about it by Colonel Charles
Halt a few weeks
after it occurred.
So that was absolute
confirmation of the event.
On top of that--
>>SPEAKER: It wasn't
classified immediately?
Or--
>>DOLAN: It was
classified, but it was then
retrieved a few years
later through a Freedom
of Information Act request.
And almost, you would
say, by a stroke of luck,
it was able to be obtained,
and we had this confirmation.
In the aftermath of
that, all the witnesses
started coming out--
not immediately.
All through the
1980s, this is a story
that developed with more
witnesses, more witnesses.
Through the 1990s, and in fact,
even into the 21st century,
we've had even more
additions to the story.
So the Rendlesham case is
like a gift that keeps giving.
We didn't get it all at once.
It's come out by--
partly by drips and drabs.
But now, it's a
flood of information.
>>SPEAKER: OK, so I have a
question to ask you then.
How many cases have to come out?
It's been 50 years--
well, if you go back as far as
Roswell, 60 years-- but more,
that these cases
have been coming.
At what point does the
government, the military,
some official agency say,
OK, right, it's real.
I mean, this is
becoming absurd now.
>>DOLAN: I agree with you.
>>SPEAKER: A couple thousand
people in the desert,
they all know it.
>>DOLAN: We're at a point
where the emperor is wearing
no clothes, and someone's
going to make the point
and say, look, he's not
wearing anything at all.
We're just about
there, it seems to me.
In other words, we've
had 20 years of internet
and really 10 years of
a true internet, where
we have all of this.
We have a web.
We have Gaia TV.
We have YouTube.
We have Skype.
We have all-- Facebook,
all of these ways
that we communicate with-- all
in the last decade, really.
So it's all new.
And I think what we
can see is that this
has had a dramatic, profound
effect on our civilization.
But what we have
is the old paradigm
is hanging on by
their fingernails.
And that old paradigm is one
of denial, of the obvious--
I was going to say the
truth, but really denial
of the obvious, I
think, is more apt.
But they're still hanging-- you
know, there's the expression,
there's nothing so powerful as
an idea whose time has come.
But there's another
part of that,
which is the second most
powerful thing is an idea that
refuses to go away.
And that's where they're at.
So they're hanging on.
That paradigm is still there.
But I think what we're
seeing is a real battle here
between the old and the new.
>>NOORY: And one day,
experts like you, Nick,
will be able to
say, I told you so.
That's going to happen.
>>POPE: I hope so.
>>NOORY: That's going to happen.
Like Rendlesham, there's
some great cases out there,
aren't there?
>>POPE: Yeah.
And the great thing
about all this
is that even these unsolved,
classic cases, you never know.
I mean, just look
at police work.
Sometimes, a new witness
will come forward.
Sometimes, a new
scientific technique--
DNA and forensics--
will enable you
to do something that the
original investigators couldn't
do.
The same is true of UFO cases.
We don't know what witness
will suddenly come forward,
what document might emerge,
what new technique could be
brought to bear on an old case.
And that would be fascinating.
>>NOORY: The answers
are going to come,
and they're going to come
in a big way one day.
What do you think the
public's reaction will be?
Will it be, well, we knew it?
Shock?
I told you so?
What will it be?
>>POPE: All of the above.
I think, on this, just as
with the UFO phenomenon,
people are divided, polarized.
Some people will react to
the revelation with fear.
Others with a sense of wonder.
Some won't believe
it, which will
be an irony, the government
saying, yeah, there's aliens,
and they'll be--
>>NOORY: And now,
they're not believing it.
>>POPE: Yeah, new skeptics
will say, no, no, no,
we don't believe the aliens.
We don't-- the government
must be covering up some--
>>NOORY: Something else.
>>POPE: Something else.
And it's a cover story.
So I think the reactions will
be as diverse as society is.
And, I mean, obviously it will
touch every aspect of society--
politics, religion, science,
technology, spirituality,
personal philosophy and
worldview, economics.
Everything.
Everything will change.
>>NOORY: What other countries
are responding to this?
>>POPE: Well, Brazil is
quite an interesting.
>>NOORY: They're in it in
a big way, aren't they?
>>POPE: They've always
been quite interested.
A lot of South
American countries
have had some amazing cases--
Brazil, Chile.
>>NOORY: What about China?
Russia?
>>POPE: They are in the game.
>>NOORY: They are?
>>POPE: But we don't
know much about it.
The Chinese, it was
revealed a year or so ago,
have a unit rather like the
UAP Task Force in the US,
studying this.
They call them
something different.
It doesn't translate
exactly, but something
like, "Unusual Atmospheric
Disturbance" or something
like that.
But they've got a unit.
And, well, the secretive
and closed nature
of Chinese society,
plus the classification,
of course, which you
see in the West too,
means that we don't
really what they're doing.
We don't know what
they've discovered.
>>NOORY: Right.
All this seems to have
popped up since the Academy
to the Stars popped up.
How important do you think they
were in this study of ufology?
>>POPE: They were critical.
Now, I think you can make
a case that information
was going to come out anyway,
that the people involved
were going to speak out
one way or the other.
And they used-- and I don't
mean that in a cynical way.
I mean, when I say they used
the to the Stars Academy
as a vehicle, I mean
it was all amicable
and they were all
talking to each other.
But it was very
clear that people
had written off Tom DeLonge
as some aging punk musician.
But in the reality,
as we know from--
>>NOORY: Well, he showed them.
>>POPE: Well, we know,
from Wikileaks and a number
of other sources,
that Tom DeLonge
was talking to some very
senior figures in the military,
and the intelligence community,
and the aviation community,
and the private sector.
And he was putting
together this team,
which included not just Chris
Mellon and Lou Elizondo,
but Jim Semivan, former CIA
of course, Steve Justice--
a number of other
very heavy hitters.
So yeah, they played
a critical role
in moving this forward
and getting this out.
>>NOORY: I remember years before
the Academy was even announced,
we ran into Tom DeLonge
at a couple of UFO events.
And my producer
Tom Danheiser said,
that's Tom DeLonge
from Blink 182.
And I went, who?
And he said, the
group Blink 182?
And I said, yeah, but who's he?
He said, he's one of the
biggest aspects of the group.
Well, I said, well,
what's he doing here?
Tom said, he loves UFOs.
Who knew that several
years later he'd
be doing what he's doing?
>>POPE: Yeah, people--
I remember, in 2017, when he
said, I'm working on something
and I'm going to
make an announcement.
>>NOORY: And that was it.
>>POPE: Yeah.
And everyone was like,
oh, you know, yeah, what?
You're going to
tell us that you've
been surfing the internet in
your bedroom or something?
Great.
And then, bang!
"New York Times'" front page,
AATIP, US Navy UFO videos.
There it is.
>>NOORY: Is the United
Nations helping out at all
with this, Nick?
>>POPE: They're not.
Now, a number of people
say they should be.
>>NOORY: I think so.
>>POPE: Well, we've discussed
the global nature of this.
And if ever there's an issue
which the United Nations might
grip and draw together these
disparate strands, this is it.
Now, you asked about
other countries.
Interestingly,
San Marino is also
doing some work
behind the scenes.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>POPE: They used to have a UFO
conference which I attended,
which bridged UFOs and
mainstream astronomy.
And now they are
apparently lobbying the UN
to maybe take a view on this.
I don't think the UN want it.
I talked some years ago to the--
well, at the time, the head of
the UN Office of Outer Space
Affairs, Dr. Mazlan Othman.
>>NOORY: They had an
organization for that?
>>POPE: Yeah.
Now they do-- mainly they
do things like space law.
You know, satellites--
>>NOORY: Who owns the moon?
>>POPE: Who owns the moon?
>>NOORY: Stuff like that.
>>POPE: Can anyone own the moon?
That sort of thing.
And in 2010, I met Dr.
Othman and asked her--
we were discussing.
We were both at a conference
at the Royal Society in the UK,
and this came up.
And it was very clear
that the UN didn't really
want this issue.
I think it went into the
all-too-difficult basket.
>>NOORY: What scared them?
>>POPE: I don't know.
Possibly the fact that
they knew or suspected
that the US was
involved in this,
but it was all classified-- and
Russia, and China, and others.
But again--
>>NOORY: Too much
of a hot potato?
>>POPE: Hot potato maybe.
Again, some of the
issues that would arise--
let's suppose we validate
this and then get,
as many people believe we
already have, technology.
Well, who owns that technology?
Who gets that technology first?
It's a space race.
It's a new space race,
because the nation that does
get it is going to be top dog.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: And that's why I
suspect people aren't talking
to each other,
because everyone wants
to be the first to get
their hands on that.
Well, guess what?
One thing that might
shock all of these people,
is that chances are it
won't even be a nation.
It'll be someone like
Elon Musk or Jeff Bezos.
>>NOORY: They'll buy
their way for information.
>>POPE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: 75 years since Roswell.
Are we any closer to finding
out what happened there?
>>POPE: We are not.
But again, it goes
back to the point
that you never know what
tomorrow will bring,
what new information
might emerge.
And there's nothing like an
anniversary to focus people.
And then there are
probably people
in Roswell right now
talking about this, going
through their attics,
going through their parents
or their grandparents records
and boxes of mementos.
All it takes is one person
who served in the military--
>>NOORY: Just one,
that's it, to go public.
>>POPE: -- who was involved in
the clean-up operation, kept,
as a lot of people
do, a souvenir.
>>NOORY: A little piece
here, a little piece there.
>>POPE: Yeah, I'm
going to put this--
I'll put this one in a
truck with the others.
But this one, I'll
put it in my pocket
and it'll be on
the mantel piece.
All it takes is one.
>>NOORY: Ufologist Don
Schmidt loves the Roswell case
and won't let it go.
What has always baffled me,
Don, is the technology that
would cause the craft to crash.
>>DON SCHMIDT: Yes, yes.
>>NOORY: They got here
from God knows where,
how many millions
of light years away,
through incredible technology
of bending space and time
I'm sure.
But why would it crash?
>>SCHMIDT: Well, as I described
early on, if there was
a tremendous lightning storm,
the original conclusions that
we were already dealing with
an electromagnetic propulsion,
anti-gravity, something that
essentially worked off as far
as--
>>NOORY: What threw
it off-kilter?
>>SCHMIDT: And just
imagine the combination
of that and lightning.
And if we were dealing with
somewhat of a scout craft,
launched from a
mothership or something--
I don't mean to speculate.
I don't like
speculation, but if we
were dealing more with an
atmospheric craft as opposed
to an actual spacecraft.
>>NOORY: Right, it
came aboard something.
>>SCHMIDT: One of
the flight engineers,
he was a flight mechanic
who worked with the 393rd.
His name was Sergeant
William Ennis.
So they worked on the silver
plates, the B-29 bombers.
They could take them apart down
to the last rivet, put them
back together again.
And before he died,
he said to me, Don,
before I go you have to find
out how that thing flew.
It didn't have a
moving part on it!
So again, what do you replicate?
>>NOORY: Anti-gravity.
If you had a chance to talk
to those secret-keepers
of information, what would
you ask them to reveal?
>>SCHMIDT: Well, two things.
I'd ask them what would have
possessed them to essentially
apply such fear and intimidation
to civilians where they have
no authority, when they knew
that the balloon was going
to be accepted, that
things were going
to return to normal posthaste?
And after all these years, why
is such fear and intimidation
still being orchestrated?
We still have witnesses
that get phone calls.
Walter Haut, his late
wife would tell us
for 30 years they were getting
late-night phone calls still
threatening, them still
warning them about this.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SCHMIDT: So what's
going on here?
Is it something that is
even out of your control?
Beyond your technology?
And that in itself would be
just a tremendous revelation.
And then secondly, if we are
dealing with an intelligence
off the planet, is there--
has there been any contact?
Are you in some way
cooperating with them?
And if that's the case, are we
dealing with either something
benevolent?
Or are we dealing with something
that-- the great secret in all
this is that we're
dealing with something
that is still rather suspect.
>>NOORY: And they can't stop it.
>>SCHMIDT: And
they can't stop it.
>>NOORY: And do you think
that might be the case, Nick?
>>POPE: It might be.
I sometimes use the
phrase "a secret
too terrible to be told."
And I wonder, with
some of that, maybe
that's what we're dealing with.
>>NOORY: It's one of
the best cases ever.
>>POPE: It is.
There's just witness, after
witness, after witness,
many of whom--
>>NOORY: Many of
whom died, right?
>>POPE: Yeah.
Going back to the point
about using new techniques
a while ago, one of
the new techniques
that I was talking
about, which is
using artificial intelligence to
try and tell whether someone's
telling the truth or not.
I mean, this takes something
like a polygraph and--
>>NOORY: Well, they
polygraphed Travis Walton,
and he told the truth.
>>POPE: Yeah, well
these AI techniques
were brought to bear on
historical interviews
with Roswell witnesses.
And pretty much all
the important ones,
on the key points, were
judged to be truthful.
Now, this technology is
still in its infancy.
And of course, it
has its detractors,
but the AI is only going
to get better and better.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: And that's something
that can be brought to bear.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: Well, you can
do it with Roswell.
You can do it with Rendlesham.
You can do it with
all the cases.
>>NOORY: I think we know,
deep down inside, what
happened at Roswell, don't we?
We really know.
>>POPE: Well, I think the
idea that it was indeed
the crash of an
extraterrestrial spacecraft
is now so firmly embedded
in popular culture,
that going back to your
point about how would people
react, I think a lot
would say, told you so!
You see?
>>NOORY: We knew it!
We knew it!
>>POPE: Yeah, no.
In the movie
"Independence Day" there
was that great
scene on the plane
where one of the characters
was saying about Area 51.
>>NOORY: The
president was, right?
>>POPE: Well, and yeah, it was
saying basically, yeah, look,
the government-- somebody
was accusing the president
of being part of this cover-up.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>POPE: And mentioning Area 51.
And the president was
saying, let me assure you
that all this stuff of aliens
and Area 51, it's not true.
And the character who plays
the Secretary of Defense
says, Mr. President, that's
not entirely correct.
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: Tight shot
of the president.
Oops!
I love it.
Nick, how do people
get a hold of you?
>>POPE: My website
is nickpope.net,
and my Twitter account,
which is the social media
platform on which I'm most
active, is @nickpopemod.
>>NOORY: Keep up the good work.
>>POPE: I'll try.
It
>>NOORY: I mean,
eventually, it's
because of people
like you that'll
get us the answers to
this incredible question,
are we alone in the universe?
>>POPE: Well, it's
a team effort,
but if I can play a
part, I'm glad to do so.
We're pushing the door open,
now it's time to kick it in.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Thank you, Nick, for
being on the program.
>>POPE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: And once you
do open up that door,
who really knows what's
on the other side?
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]